JPA is very sophisticated.
It provides a higher level of abstraction than JDBC,
and lets you work with Java objects directly.
You could certainly pick a JPA implementation like hibernate,
and use it in your application as is.
Spring data JPA adds a layer on top of JPA.
It provides seamless integration of JPA into the spring stack.
It reduces a lot of boilerplate code that you would otherwise have to write yourself.
The basic abstraction that spring data provides is a repository.
A repository contains methods to perform, basic,
create, read, update, and delete operations on an entity.
You could also add your own methods to the repository.
If you follow the standard naming conventions,
then Spring data generates the JPQL query from the method name.
Let's see how to create a repository for an entity.
This is the repository for the order entity.
Spring data provides different repository implementation.
CrudRepository provides basic crud operations on the entity.
There are two other different types of
repository implementations that will be discussed in the next section.
Notice that this repository is an interface and not a class,
and that's because spring data will provide
an implementation of this interface during runtime.
You can also see there is a method,
find by customer name,
which does not have any implementation,
but spring data using the method name will find out which field it queries against,
and then it will write the query for that field during runtime.
Let's take a look at the sample code.
I have a Spring Boot application here with a command line runner.
All the runner does is that it creates an order with a couple of order items,
and then it calls the save method on the repository.
Notice that the order does not include the primary key,
which means after the order is saved,
the database will generate the primary key and return it back.
That primary key will be printed here,
and I'm also using the find by customer name method here,
and passing in the name as John Doe,
which is the same name that we have set here.
When I run this method,
you will see that spring data actually generates
the SQL query for finding an order by customer name.
Let's run this class.
Nice. It created the order with ID1.
It also read the order back by name.
You can see that it is querying the order using
name right here in the very class where it specifies order0_.customer_name.
Notice how simple that was,
this is the value.